Documentation entry page for Bayeux Cometd

= Bayeux Cometd Introduction =

Cometd is a project by the [http://dojotoolkit.org/foundation Dojo Foundation] to produce a specification (Bayeux) and a set of implementations of that specification (Cometd).


== Bayeux Overview ==

The primary purpose of Bayeux is to implement responsive user interactions for 
web clients using Ajax and the server-push technique called Comet.

Initially the Bayeux specification provides only a [http://svn.xantus.org/shortbus/trunk/bayeux/bayeux.html protocol definition], but eventually it is planned to include standardized APIs for servers and clients as part of the specification.
  
=== Protocol ===

The [http://svn.xantus.org/shortbus/trunk/bayeux/bayeux.html Bayeux Specification] is written in RFC style and is aimed at defining the interoperability aspects of cometd project. The protocol itself is open to extension and encourages multiple transport implementations.

=== APIs ===

There is currently a proposed Java server side [https://svn.codehaus.org/jetty-contrib/jetty/trunk/contrib/cometd/api dojox.cometd] API.  It has been implemented by the Jetty server and is under review/consideration by other java servers.



== Cometd Overview ==

Blah blah




= Using Bayeux =

This section contains material that is applicable to all Bayeux implementations.

== Bayeux Features ==
 * BayeuxChannels
 * BayeuxStates
 * BayeuxFilters
 * BayeuxExtensions

== Use Cases ==
 * BayeuxChatExample
 * BayeuxBroadcast
 * BayeuxNarrowcast
 * BayeuxRpc


= Using Cometd (and other implementations) =

This section contains material that is applicable to specific Bayeux implementations,
in most part the implementations are part of the cometd project, but for completeness, non-cometd implementations are included aswell


== Cometd Clients ==

=== Javascript Clients ===
 * CometdDojo
 * CometdJquery
 * CometdExtJs

=== Java Clients ===
 * CometdJetty

=== Flash Clients ===
 * ???

== Cometd Servers ==

=== Java Servers ===
 * CometdJetty
 * TomcatBayeux ?
 * BeaBayeux ?

=== Perl Servers ===
 * CometdPerl

=== Twisted Python Servers ==
 * CometdTwisted
 